Europe after World War I:
laid waste by the war, let down by the peace that follows it, struggling with inflation, humiliation, civil unrest, and then economic depression. This is how the map of Europe looked in the 1920s. In Italy, feelings of betrayal by its world war I allies, France and Britain give rise to the black shirt fascists and the blusterous leadership of Benito Mussolini, Il Duch, who promises to deliver the Italian people from their disappointment in victory. in Germany, crushed by the terms of the Versailles treaty, a rabble rousing Adolf fiddler of the national socialist, the Nazi party, wins followers by promising to deliver the German people from their agony in defeat. 
Now more than anything else, Iluce needs a military victory of his own, a building block in the new Roman empire he promises his people. plotting an easy conquest he unleashes a modern mechanized Italian army on peaceful but backward Ethiopia. Hal Salasi, Ethiopia's leader, pleads with the league of nations for help, but the delegates are too weary of war to rouse themselves. Ethiopia collapses. 
Now Hitler, who has been quietly building up the German army, marches troops into the Reineland and retakes that part of western Germany, which had been occupied by French soldiers in accordance with the Versailles treaty, and no one stops it. Encouraged, Hitler and Mussolini form a German Italian alliance, the axis powers. Today, Germany is ours, Hitler tells his people tomorrow, the world. 
In 1937, a savage civil war erupts in Spain, a tragic conflict which Hitler and Mussolini use as a playing field for their war games. Here German and Italian war planes are tested with practiced bombings of Spanish cities and towns, thousands of helpless civilians are killed. There are international protests, but again, no one stops the dictators. 
Next, Hitler marches into neighboring Austria and without firing a shot, absorbs Austria into Nazi Germany as a nation, Austria ceases to exist. Bolstered by his successes thus far, Hitler demands that the Sudetan land, a German speaking province of Czechoslovakia, be turned over to Nazi Germany. Neville Chamberlain, prime minister of Great Britain and his French counterpart should have come to Czechoslovakia's aid, but they meekly yield to Hitler's demands out of a policy of appeasement. 
The Czechs themselves have no say in the matter. Within a year, Hitler, unopposed, bland grabs the remainder of the Czechoslovak Republic. Now throughout Germany and what had been Austria, there was an outbreak of violence by German Nazis against their Jewish neighbors. 
Jews are beaten and killed, their synagogues burned, and their shop windows smashed. This ugly event is known as crystal knocked, Knight of the broken glass. A secret agreement, the Nazi Soviet pact, is negotiated between Hitler and Joseph Stalin, brutal dictator of communist Russia, then the Soviet Union, to attack Poland jointly and divide it. 
Germany strikes, blisree, lightning war. From the west, one million German fighting men attacked. Russian forces thunder in from the east. 
The gallant but outdated Polish army fights bravely, German Panzer tanks against Polish horsemen. Poland is split in two. The fragile policy of appeasement shattered as allies France and Great Britain with all the power of its empire, Canada, Australia, and the rest declare war on the German Italian axis, but militarily they are in no way prepared to halt Hitler. 
Now the Nazi Blitzgri strikes north. Tiny Denmark is stunned into submission in just one day. Norway is next, but Norway puts up a fight, defending themselves with raw Viking courage. 
The Norwegians are overcome in just four days. Then Hitler's massive war machine whips around and strikes the Netherlands, bombing flat the city of Rotterdam and roars into Belgium, crushing its scrappy little army. Sudden panic grips the world, stop it in bursts of lightning warfare, an unbeatable Hitler has conquered most of Western Europe. 
Britain sends 250,000 troops to aid its ally, France. The French falsely believe that the Maginot line, an elaborate chain of defense fortifying the French German border will keep them safe, but they're wrong. Hitler bypasses the Magot line, whips through the Ardennes forest in Belgium and attacks France, while fellow dictator Mussolini strikes France from the south, the allied forces, French and British, overwhelmed by Hitler's 1 million troops, are pushed to the coast to the port city of Bologna when it falls to the Germans to Kais and at last to Dunkirk, where a quarter of a million retreating troops find themselves hopelessly cornered. on the other side of the English channel, Britainains hastily assemble a makeship flotilla, sailboats, cruisers, tubs, barges, anything that floats to shuttle as many stranded men as possible to safety in England. but the unthinkable has happened. 
France is lost to Hitler. Now only a narrow sleeve of water separates the British isles from the bases of Hitler's air force, the Lutwaffe. Britain stands alone. night after night, thousands of German planes fly relentless air raid missions over England, unloading tons of bombs on London, Coventry, destroying, burning, killing to force Britain into surrender, but with bulldog toughness, Britain's prime minister Winston Churchill gives Hitler notice Britain will never surrender. 
The pilots and crews of Britain's royal airport bravely counterattack the mighty l Luftwaffe. Britain is holding out, but for how long not to be outdone by his axis partner, Mussolini casts a greedy eye on North Africa, sending a quarter of a million Italian troops to knock off 50,000 British troops stationed there, but the greatly outnumbered British beat back the Italians. Springing to Mussolini's aid, Hitler dispatches his deft Africa corps under the masterful leadership of General Erwin Ramo, who soon have the British on the run. 
Suddenly Hitler breaks his treaty with Soviet dictator Stalin and invades Russia. As a huge German force smashes toward Moscow, the Soviet capital, Russia seems doomed. Then, as the seasons change, the German advance is almost halted in its tracks by an unexpected enemy, the harsh and terrible Russian winter. 
The Russians counteratt attack, forging an eastern front against the invaders for two years Germans and Russians are locked in combat at the battered city of Stalingrad. More than half a million soldiers are killed. On the other side of the world at the Hawaiian islands, the empire of Japan almost destroys the US Pacific fleet in a daring attack on Pearl Harbor. 
The United States declares war on Japan and then on Germany and Italy the entire axis. If North Africa falls to the Germans and Italians, Hitler will have won full control of the Mediterranean sea and it's falling fast. Then field Marshal Bernard Montgomery takes command of the British forces, makes a stand at El Alame and doggedly beats back Rommel's Africa corps. 
With the help of the American forces new to the war, the Axis armies are driven out of North Africa. Now the allies are free to take Sicily and use that island as a base from which to invade Hitler's Europe through Italy. Furthermore, the Italian people rise up, overthrow Mussolini, and switch to the side of the allies. 
Hitler covers Italy with tough German troops, and it is only after brutal fighting that the allies inch their way up the Italian peninsula and free Rome. but the Germans will fight frantically to keep them out of their fatherland. dramatic reverses rock the eastern front. The Russians beat back the Germans at Stalingrad, and after taking a quarter of a million German prisoners, launch an offensive, winning back territories lost to the enemy, while pushing furiously toward Germany itself. D, an allied offensive, long in secret planning, is given the go sign by U. Dwight D. Eisenhower. 
From English shores, the greatest armada in the history of warfare crosses to the heavily defended beaches of northern France. The Germans will fight back with everything they've got Against all odds, the allies, American, British and Canadian troops managed to get a foothold on the beaches. but with a huge loss of life, battered but not big, the allied fighting men swag on, liberating towns and villages from the Nazis until they've liberated Paris, the French capital itself. France is free. 
Across the Atlantic, America, untouched by bombs and battles, throws its tremendous energies into the production of weapons of war. Rosie the riveter. Many women work in war plants, taking over the jobs of men who are fighting overseas. guns, bombs, tanks, planes, and ships are produced so speedily and in such quantities as to amaze America's allies and overwhelm its enemies. 
It fuels round the clock bombing of German war plants by British and American air crews. In late 1944, the Allies are pushing confidently through Belgium toward Germany, but the German crippled war machine isn't beaten yet, gathering his remaining forces for one great last ditch stand, Hitler launches a massive offensive against the advancing allies. fighting in the bitter cold of Belgium's Ardden forest at first it looks as if Hitler's Germans will wedge into the allies like an axplay and cut the allied forces in two, but the allies hold out and with their superior air power win what comes to be known as the battle of the bulge, the biggest and bloodiest World War II battle fought by the Americans. The allies advance into Germany into the heart of Berlin itself. 
Rather than be captured, Hitler commits suicide. In their breakthrough into Hitler's Europe, the allies liberate many of the Nazi concentration camps and death camps in Germany, D Doau and Buchenwald, in Austria, Mothhausen, in Poland, Auschwitz Birkenau and Trelinka. News of the holocaust shocks the civilized world. 
On the seventh of May 1945, Germany gives up and surrenders to the allies. Victory in Europe, the e day is celebrated joyously on both sides of the Atlantic. But world war II still ranges in the Pacific.

